


Rising Pune Supergiants




M.S. Dhoni has never been a part of a team that had to be called an underdog or not been among the favourites to win the trophy. He’ll go into the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on Tuesday with a squad that has found ways to lose matches from positions of strength — not something you associate with a team that has Dhoni at the helm. The match offers another chance for Dhoni’s boys to show their mettle and arrest the losing streak. But it might not be easy, given the red hot form SRH is in. 




With only one win in five matches, the RPS think tank needs devise a better bowling strategy or bring in fresh faces to strike the right combination. While Thisara Perera and Murugan Ashwin have provided breakthroughs, they’ve also been expensive, going at 9 and 8 per over, respectively. The others, barring 36-year-old Rajat Bhatia, haven’t been effective so far. Dhoni rarely changes his team but given the position of the team, he might replace a couple of his bowlers — that, of course, would also depend on the pitch condition as well.





RPS’ batting has managed to put decent scores so far, and they would like to believe that they possess enough firepower to post big total. 





Probable XI






Ajinkya Rahane, Faf du Plessis, Steven Smith, M.S. Dhoni, Albie Morkel, Thisara Perera, Rajat Bhatia, R. Ashwin, Ankit Sharma,Ishant Sharma, M. Ashwin






Sunrisers Hyderabad




The Sunrisers, on the other hand, have managed to string a series of wins under their belt. Skipper David Warner’s batting form and Mustafizur’s slower ones have managed to carry the team thus far.With RPS’ bowlers struggling to pick wickets and the ground at Hyderabad seeing relatively lower scores this season, SRH batsmen might look to chase today. The team winning the toss is likely to bowl first, given the hot and humid conditions. And, the last three matches at the ground were won by the chasing team. So there’s enough to suggest that the team batting second will have the upper hand in the match.





There are reports doing the rounds that Ashish Nehra might be inducted into the team. If that happens, it will be at the expense of Punjab pacer Barinder Sran. That apart, Warner will not look to make any changes to the winning combination.






Probable XI






David Warner, Shikhar Dhawan, Aditya Tare, Eoin Morgan, Deepak Hooda, Moises Henriques, Naman Ojha, Bipul Sharma, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Mustafizur Rahman, Ashish Nehra





