

Manchester City survived a late grilling by Real Madrid to hold on for a 0-0 home draw on Tuesday that keeps alive their hopes of reaching the Champions League final for the first time.



Real woke up following a turgid opening half in the semifinal first leg and City needed two late saves from Joe Hart to keep them on level terms for next week's return at the Bernabeu.



The visitors suffered a setback before kick-off when Cristiano Ronaldo, the leading scorer in this season's competition with 16 goals, was ruled out with a thigh injury.



Neither side managed a shot on target in the first 45 minutes but Real then took charge with Casemiro and Pepe denied from close range by England keeper Hart while substitute Jese headed against the City bar.



The hosts managed a late flurry with Kevin De Bruyne's curling free kick tipped over by Keylor Navas.



The second leg in Madrid is played next week, with City boosted by not conceding an away goal. 


A match between the grand master of European soccer and a recent arrival to the continent’s top table proved to be something of a let-down, particularly with the vast array of talent on show. 


The absence of Ronaldo, who had been expected to be fit, gave City a pre-game lift and ensured Madrid lacked a cutting edge going forward. That was even more the case when Benzema another injury doubt for the match with a knee problem failed to come out for the second half and was replaced by Jese. 


Madrid’s central midfield trio of Casemiro, Luka Modric and Toni Kroos rarely ventured forward to help out the front three, preferring instead to give the visitors a solid block in front of the defense. City saw plenty of the ball in a tight first half but never threatened Madrid goalkeeper Keylor Navas, and then lost its way after the break. 


That probably wasn’t helped by Spain playmaker David Silva hobbling off late in the first half with an apparent hamstring injury, sustained while fouling Gareth Bale. 


There were no shots on target in the first half from either side, and City striker Sergio Aguero also lacked accuracy when he blazed a left-footed attempt over the bar in the opening moments of the second half. 


A goalkeeper was finally tested when Joe Hart had to be alert to save a header from the unmarked Sergio Ramos at a corner. 


With its star-studded attack now also shorn of Benzema, Madrid relied on the roving Bale for inspiration but the former Tottenham winger was quiet on his return to England, save for an effort that curled wide of the far post. Instead, it was Jese who came closest to scoring when he met a right cross with a header that glanced the top of the crossbar and bounced over. 
